# PrefaceThis simple book is meant to get you started in FRC robot programming. The title says it’s “the hard way” because it uses an age-old technique called “instruction”. Instruction is where I tell you to do a sequence of controlled exercises designed to build a skill through repetition. This technique works very well with beginners who know nothing and need to acquire basic skills before they can understand more complex topics. It's used in everything from martial arts to music to even basic math, reading skills and – finally – robot programming.Nowadays, many newcomers expect to get up and running with programming by typing some random characters in a terminal or text editor. Programming is not that. Programming requires learning and dedication, and the best way to learn is to repeat to build skill and confidence. If you are familiar with this introduction, I grabbed it from Learn Python the Hard Way, by Zed A. Shaw. It’s an excellent book for getting started with programming. You can read it for free here. Its not required for this book, but I highly recommend it to you.This book teaches you to write programs for FRC robots with NI LabVIEW and C++ by slowly building and establishing skills through practice and some – but not too much – memorization.By the end of this book, you will be able to:-	Understand how a FRC robot works-	Write and understand FRC robot software-	Create an efficient program for your robot-	Find and fix issues with your robot with your code-	Write different command modes for your robot, if you don’t understand this, you will understand later :)-	Understand the basics – and not so basics – of C++ and LabVIEW-	Finally, to be confident with programming anything you dream of